Data structure is an aggregation on atomic and composite data types into a set with defined relationships.
In this definition structures means set of rules that hold the data together. In other words if we take a combination
of data types and fit them into a structure such that we can define its relating rules, we have made a data structure.
A data structure can be nested.

#Atomic data: The data that we choose to consider as a single non-decomposible entity. 
#Composite data: The data that can be broken out into sub-fields that have meaning 
    for example telephone number,pin code number.
#Abstract Data type: It is a data declaration packaged together with the operations that are meaningful on the
    data type, in other words we incapsulate the data and operations on data and we hide them from the user.

1.Linear List
A linear list is a list in which each element has a unique successor, here before we have studied a linear list structure
in the array. The arrays are easy to create and use, they are inefficient whenever sequenced data is needed to be
inserted or deleted. The linear list can be divided into 2 categories- a.general b.restricted
    General- In a general list data can be inserted and deleted anywhere and there are no restrictions on the 
      operations that can be used to process the list. The general list structure can be further described by there 
      data as random or ordered list.
        Random list- In a random list there is no ordering of the data.
        Ordered list- In a ordered list the data is arranged according to a key.(singular or complex key; primary or secondary)

        # a key is one or more feeds within a structure that are used to identify the data or otherwise control its
        use. In a simple array the data is also the keys, in an array of record structures the key is a field that 
        identifies the record.
    Restricted- In a restricted list data ca nonly be added or deleted at the ends of the structure and processing
      is restricted to operations of data at the end of the list. Here we study 2 restricted list structures
        1.FIFO (First in first out)
        2.LIFO (Last in First out)

There are 4 operations generally associated with linear list- insertion, deletion, retrival, and traversal.
The first 3 apply to all list and list traversal is not applicable to restricted list.

LINKED LIST
Linked list is an ordered collection of data in which each element contains the location of the next element i.e. 
each element contains 2 parts, data and link(or next). The data part holds useful information, the data to be 
processed. The link is used to chain the data together, it contains a pointer that identifies the next element in
the list, there is also a pointer variable that identifies the first element in the list. The name of the list is 
the same as name of this pointer variable. The simple linked list that we have described here is commonly known as
a 'singly linked list' because it contains only one link to a single successor.

Advantage of linked list
the major advantage of linked list over other general list structure is that data is easily inserted and deleted. 
It is not necessary to shift elements of a linked list to make room for a new element or to delete a element, on the
other hand the elements are no longer physically sequenced, we are limited to sequential searches we can not use 
binary search.